#backend: Qt5Agg

#lines
lines.linewidth     : 1.5
lines.linestyle     : -  
lines.color         : black
 
#fonts & text
font.family         : stixgeneral
#font.sans-serif     : Arial
font.weight         : normal
font.size           : 12.0
text.color          : black


text.usetex         : False
#text.latex.preamble : \usepackage{txfonts}

 
#axes & ticks
axes.edgecolor      : black
axes.facecolor      : white
axes.linewidth      : 1.0  
axes.titlesize      : x-large
axes.labelsize      : x-large
axes.labelweight    : normal
axes.labelcolor     : black
axes.formatter.limits : -4, 4

#grid
axes.grid           : True
grid.color          : black
grid.alpha          : 0.2
grid.linestyle      : -
grid.linewidth      : 0.5
axes.titlepad       : 30
 
xtick.major.size     : 7
xtick.minor.size     : 4
xtick.major.pad      : 6
xtick.minor.pad      : 6
xtick.labelsize      : x-large
xtick.minor.width    : 1.0
xtick.major.width    : 1.0
 
ytick.major.size     : 7
ytick.minor.size     : 4
ytick.major.pad      : 6
ytick.minor.pad      : 6
ytick.labelsize      : x-large
ytick.minor.width    : 1.0
ytick.major.width    : 1.0
 
#legends
legend.numpoints     : 1
legend.fontsize      : x-large
legend.shadow        : False
legend.frameon       : True
